---
order: 
title: Bostel Dual Deep Learning Technology Significantly Improves Diagnostic Accuracy of Melanoma
date: 2019-02-15
location: Boston
---
Bostel Technologies, LLC today announced that the globally respect medical journal The Lancet published results of a retrospective study that showed that Melody™, Bostel’s Dual Deep Learning Technology™, significantly improves the diagnostics accuracy of melanoma.

“We have leveraged sonification and artificial intelligence to create a new diagnostic paradigm with clinically-proven sensitivity and specificity,” commented Harry Keegan, Bostel’s Chief Executive Officer.  “This patent protected platform empowers healthcare professionals to efficiently and effectively diagnose melanoma lesions using dermoscopy so they can focus on improving outcomes and helping their patients”.

The publication (The Lancet, <em>EBioMEdicine</em>; February 2019, volume 40, pages 176–183) details the results from two parallel studies that were conducted: a laboratory retrospective study (LABS, n = 482 biopsies) and a non-interventional prospective observational study (OBS, n = 63 biopsies).  Using Melody’s Dual Deep Learning Technology, which leverages dermoscopy and adds a second stage of processing that includes a deep learning algorithm of sonification and heuristic inspection with machine learning, significantly improves diagnostic accuracy.

Melanoma and nonmelanoma skin cancer are now among the most common types of cancer, worldwide.  Non-melanoma skin cancer is the 5th most commonly occurring cancer in men and women,with over 1 million diagnoses worldwide in 2018, although this is likely to be an underestimate.  Melanoma of the skin is the 19th most commonly occurring cancer in men and women, there were nearly 300,000 new cases in 2018.  

More people are diagnosed with skin cancer each year in the U.S. than all other cancers combined.  According to the Skin Cancer Foundation, one in five Americans will develop skin cancer by the age of 70.  If detected early, the five-year mean survivability rate for melanoma is 99%.  If undetected, or if detected to late, the consequences can be severe.  Every hour, two people in the U.S. die from skin cancer.