---
order: 
title: Prospective Clinical Study Using Melody Validates Its Utility as Diagnostic for Melanoma
date: 2019-05-30
location: Boston
---
Bostel Technologies, LLC today announced that the globally respect medical journal The Lancet published results of a prospective clinical study that showed that Melody™, Bostel’s Dual Deep Learning Technology™, significantly improves the diagnostics accuracy of melanoma.

“We have leveraged sonification and artificial intelligence to create a new diagnostic paradigm with clinically-proven sensitivity and specificity,” commented Harry Keegan, Bostel’s Chief Executive Officer.  “This patent protected platform empowers healthcare professionals to efficiently and effectively diagnose melanoma lesions using dermoscopy so they can focus on improving outcomes and helping their patients”.

Experimental studies have indicated a potential diagnostic role for deep learning algorithms in identifying skin cancer at varying sensitivities. Previously, it was demonstrated that diagnostics by dermoscopy are improved by applying an additional sonification (data to sound waves conversion) layer on deep. learning algorithms. The aim of the study was to determine the impact of image quality on accuracy of diagnosis by sonification employing a rudimentary skin magnifier with polarized light.

The publication (The Lancet, <em>EBioMEdicine</em>; May 2019, Volume 43, Pages 107–113) recounted that processing of dermoscopic images followed by sonification resulted in an accurate diagnostic output using skin magnifier with polarized light.  This implyied that the quality of the dermoscope is not the major factor influencing DL diagnosis of skin cancer.   Thus Melody, Bostels Dual Deep Learning technology platform might have great utility in assisting healthcare providers to better detect melanoma.

Melanoma and nonmelanoma skin cancer are now among the most common types of cancer, worldwide.  Non-melanoma skin cancer is the 5th most commonly occurring cancer in men and women, with over 1 million diagnoses worldwide in 2018, although this is likely to be an underestimate.  Melanoma of the skin is the 19th most commonly occurring cancer in men and women, there were nearly 300,000 new cases in 2018.  

More people are diagnosed with skin cancer each year in the U.S. than all other cancers combined.  According to the Skin Cancer Foundation, one in five Americans will develop skin cancer by the age of 70.  If detected early, the five-year mean survivability rate for melanoma is 99%.  If undetected, or if detected to late, the consequences can be severe.  Every hour, two people in the U.S. die from skin cancer.   
