---
order: 
title: May is Skin Cancer Awareness Month – Bostel Urges You to Act
date: 2019-05-01
location: Boston
---
Bostel Technologies, LLC today recognized the May is Skin Cancer Awareness month and urged people to act now to make changes to minimize the risk of this growing issue.

“At Bostel we are focused on developing Melody, a new technology platform that healthcare providers can use to better detect melanoma,” commented Harry Keegan, Bostel’s Chief Executive Officer. “While we are encouraged by the clinical results we have seen and this gives us hope, making the right behavioral choices today can help ensure that people minimize their risk”.

According to the Skin Cancer Foundation, over 5 million cases of skin cancer are diagnosed each year, making it the most common cancer in the United States. Fortunately, skin cancer is also one of the most preventable forms of cancer. About 90 percent of nonmelanoma skin cancers and 85 percent of melanoma cases are associated with exposure to ultraviolet radiation from the sun. By raising awareness of the dangers of unprotected exposure and encouraging sun-safe habits, we can change behaviors and save lives.

More people are diagnosed with skin cancer each year in the U.S. than all other cancers combined.  According to the Skin Cancer Foundation, one in five Americans will develop skin cancer by the age of 70.  If detected early, the five-year mean survivability rate for melanoma is 99%.  If undetected, or if detected to late, the consequences can be severe.  Every hour, two people in the U.S. die from skin cancer.

We encourage people to log on the the Skin Cancer Foundation website to learn what you can do to get involved: <a href="https://www.skincancer.org/get-involved/skin-cancer-awareness-month/">https://www.skincancer.org/get-involved/skin-cancer-awareness-month/</a>