---
order: 
title: Bostel Patent Issued for Dual Deep Learning Algorithm
date: 2022-04-12
location: Atlanta
---
Bostel Technologies, LLC today announced the issuance by the U.S. Patent
and Trademark Office of Bostel's first and most central patent relating
to the diagnosis of cancer using dual deep learning, including
sonification.

On April 12, 2022, the USPTO issued patent number 11,298,072, titled,
"Dermoscopy Diagnosis of Cancerous Lesions Utilizing Dual Deep Learning
Algorithms via Visual and Audio (Sonification) Outputs". The patent
covers Bostel's novel approach to multimodal deep learning in diagnostic
applications.

"Melanoma and other skin cancers can be deadly. Effectively diagnosing
problematic lesions as early as possible is critical," said dermatologist Dr. Avi
Dascalu, Bostel's Chief Medical Officer and lead inventor named on this
patent. Dr. Dascalu highlighted Bostel's use of both traditional
vision-based machine-learning approaches, as well as cutting edge
methods that use sonification, or the conversion of data from the image
into structured sound. "Our algorithms detect even small cancers, without many false positives," Dascalu said.

Dr. Bruce N. Walker, President of Bostel Technologies and a world expert
in sonfication, pointed out that reliably detecting cancer when it is
present, and not classifying safe lesions or moles as dangerous, must
both be featured in any successful diagnostic or screening tool.
"Success requires both high sensitivity and a solid specificity.
Bostel's dual deep learning method excels at both these metrics."

The effectiveness of Bostel's now-patented technologies has been well
documented in various peer-reviewed <a
href="/publications">publications</a>. These technologies are also
powering products and services that Bostel will soon bring to the
market.

More people are diagnosed with skin cancer each year in the U.S. than
all other cancers combined.  According to the Skin Cancer Foundation,
one in five Americans will develop skin cancer by the age of 70.  If
detected early, the five-year mean survivability rate for melanoma is
99%.  If undetected, or if detected to late, the consequences can be
severe.  Every hour, two people in the U.S. die from skin cancer.

Read more about <a href="/publications">Bostel Technologies' publications</a> and technologies.

<img src="/assets/mockup-of-issuance.png" WIDTH="60%">
